okay so both of these animals live in
the water
other than that there's little in common
between them
a smaller one is a warm-blooded mammal
highly intelligent and curious
just like me its long streamlined body
is usually either blue
or gray but there are also brown and
even pink species
ranging in size from 6 to 30 feet long
dolphins don't weigh more than
11 tons their slippery hairless skin
that feels rubbery to the touch is
probably their most famous feature
the other animal is a notorious
prehistoric predator
just like me growing about 60 feet long
it weighed almost five times more than
the largest dolphin its size
huge serrated teeth and incredible speed
well that's what made the mag the most
feared creature in the ocean
23 to 3 and a half million years ago
so the question is who would you rather
meet while swimming in the ocean
a dolphin a megalodon or me oops not me
never mind in comparison with a sharp
tooth monster
dolphins look cute and totally harmless
but imagine the
following picture it's a hot summer day
it seems only logical to go for a swim
in the sea
you're floating on your back completely
relaxed
your eyes are closed your breath even
waters pleasantly cool around your body
a light breeze touching your face you
feel
calm enough to doze off suddenly
something bumps into your leg yanked out
of your calf slumber
you begin to flail until you're face to
face with the invisible danger
luckily all you spot is a couple of
easily recognizable fins
and cute smiley snouts just dolphins
guess you're lucky to meet them in the
wild these amazing creatures are so
close you can touch them
you've heard people say dolphin skin
feels rubbery
but to your mind it's more like the
inner part of a hard-boiled egg
one of the animals is so close to you
that its salty smell fills your nostrils
you know though that dolphins don't have
sweat glands
it means they don't sweat and are pretty
much odorless
the smell you sense comes from the water
they swim in
at first you feel curious the dolphins
seem eager to interact with you too
they circle around but keep some
distance
soon you can already count seven or ten
animals swimming nearby
and then uh-oh are they playing with you
first one
animal then another they come closer and
push you with their noses as if you were
a ball
it doesn't hurt since they're rather
delicate and careful
while passing you from one to another
they make funny sounds
you can't but giggle at the dolphin's
antics
some time has passed and you don't feel
like laughing anymore
the animals are getting too bold and
their pushes grow stronger
all of a sudden you realize that you're
pretty far away from the shore
surrounded by wild massive animals even
though they look friendly
their behavior is totally unpredictable
and the worst is yet to come
the largest of the dolphins comes up
with an idea of swimming
under you then diving deep down to the
bottom
this creates a whirlpool and it starts
to pull you inside with an enormous
force
the dolphin reappears then dives once
more
soon you don't have enough time to get
some air into your lungs
after every five seconds at the surface
your body gets dragged underwater again
and again several more dolphins join the
game
you're shocked disoriented and worn out
it's impossible to keep up with the
animals
and you rapidly lose strength at one
moment
you realize with frightening clarity
that you're drowning
the only thing that gives you hope is
that from time to time
some of the dolphins push you back up to
the surface
they probably guess that if you drowned
the game will lose its fun for them
yeah it won't be fun for you either the
whole thing
can't have lasted longer than 10 or 15
minutes but for you
it's been an eternity after the animals
get bored
you muster up all your strength and swim
toward the beach as fast as you can
the dolphins don't follow you exhausted
and trembling
you manage to get out of the water and
fall down on the sand
the only thought in your mind is now i
understand why
sharks are afraid of these cute
creatures
and indeed the most feared predator of
the sea would do anything not to cross
paths with a dolphin these mammals have
flexible skeletal joints and soft skin
it makes it easier for them to maneuver
while dealing with their toothy
counterparts
dolphin snouts are made of thick and
strong bone
animals use them to protect themselves
from enemies for example
a dolphin can swim under a shark and
burst upward
aiming at its underbelly such a jab is
so
powerful that it causes serious internal
injuries
shark tails have vertical planes it
limits their abilities
they can't move upward or downward fast
enough
dolphins have horizontal planes on their
tails that's why they can change
directions almost instantly
sharks are solitary creatures and
dolphins prefer traveling in groups
also called pods when one pod member is
in danger
its mates immediately come to the rescue
sharks often try to use their mighty
jaws to take down dolphins
but their only chance is to find the
animal's blind spot
or catch it unawares if the first
shark's attempt is unsuccessful
the dolphin will either escape or
regroup and call its friends to help
fight the enemy
dolphins are not only smart and agile
they're also
incredibly fast their speed usually
exceeds that of most shark species
such an elusive meal isn't worth the
effort
orcas the largest members of the dolphin
family hunt sharks when they can't find
other food sources
and orca uses its super strong tail fins
to hit a shark on the back
this makes the massive fish unable to
move
sharks stay away from dolphins and maybe
you should too
for one thing these animals have sharp
teeth and a strong
bite bottlenose dolphins have up to 100
teeth
more than enough to grip their prey and
keep it immobile
bottlenose dolphins sometimes gather in
large groups of up to 1 thousand animals
when all of them set off for a hunt at
the same time it looks scary
but more often they travel in pods of 10
to 15 members
if a dolphin decides you're a menace it
might attack you
getting shoved with its long hard nose
isn't a pleasant experience
combine it with the speed at which the
animal is barreling towards you
and the outcome of such an encounter
looks ghastly
you won't be able to outswim a dolphin
even if you're excellent at sports this
animal can glide through the water at
more than 20 miles per hour
all thanks to its powerful tail and
streamlined shape
for comparison an olympic swimmer's top
speed is around
5 miles per hour thanks to their
impressive speed
dolphins can launch themselves out of
the water and i'm not talking about
leaping beautifully over the waves
these animals have enough power to lunge
16 feet up into the air
bottlenose dolphins are top ocean
predators when hungry
they turn into cunning calculating
creatures that find
unusual ways to trap their prey while
watching dolphins in the shallow waters
in florida
scientists notice a curious thing
animals
used their tails to stir up the mud so
that fish couldn't get away
and in australia dolphins were spotted
using sponges
to dig smaller animals out of the sea
floor even better
they share new methods of hunting with
their mates sometimes
even recipes just kidding you can't
escape from an
angry dolphin by hiding in the depths
they can dive to more than 800 feet
under the surface
the deepest a human has ever free dived
is 702
feet sharks are known to leave surfers
alone and
mind their own business dolphins on the
other hand
seem to like taunting people there have
been cases when they deliberately push
surfboards until surfers fell off into
the water
and then jumped over them if a dolphin
comes close to you
and starts to tail slap you better get
out of the water right away
it's likely to be a sign the animal is
about to attack you dolphin snouts look
smiley that's why they seem friendly
kind and
harmless but keep in mind it's yet
another wild animal
yes they're highly intelligent and cool
but be careful around them
and try to keep your distance hey if
nothing else works
toss them a fish